MEMO
	A memorandum, more commonly known as a memo, is a short message or record used for internal communication in a business. Once the primary form of internal written communication, memorandums have declined in use since the introduction of email and other forms of electronic messaging; however, being able to write clear memos certainly can serve you well in writing internal business emails, as they often serve the same purpose.


Purpose of Memos
	There are many important purposes of a memorandum. Bringing notice to problems, and helping to solve a problem through clear and concise communication are two.[4] Memos support decision making and to “help (or sometimes influence) a decision-maker to make a better decision in a particular problem situation than he might otherwise have made without the analysis”.[5] Other purposes that the briefing note can serve include: conveying information; informing decisions, making a request, providing a response to a question, making a suggestion, presenting an informal report, proposing a solution to a problem, or documenting a reference for future use. Memorandums can be used to make brief appeals or give suggestions. These actions in a brief paper can help significantly expedite business actions to make a positive impact in an organization
	Memos can be used to quickly communicate with a wide audience something brief but important, such as procedural changes, price increases, policy additions, meeting schedules, reminders for teams, or summaries of agreement terms.


Elements 
	Parts of Memorandum
There are mainly five parts of a memorandum. They are

Heading Segment
The heading segment of a memo has four basic sections.

TO: Reader’s names and job titles

FROM: sender’s name and job title

DATE: Complete date

SUBJECT: Reason for writing a memo

Opening Segment
In this segment, one can find the purpose of the memo. The opening paragraph includes the reason or the motive of writing a memo. It gives a brief overview of the memo.

Context
It is the event or circumstance of the problem the writer is solving. One should clearly mention the context.

Task Segment
It is the segment one must include to mention the steps for solving the problem. One must only include the needed information. Do proper planning before writing a memo.

Summary Segment
If a memo is more than a page, one must include a separate summary segment. It is not necessary for a short memo. It helps the reader to understand the main idea of the memo. Also, it helps to take the required steps.

Discussion Segment
It is the longest part of a memo. It includes all the details supporting the ideas. Remember to start with general information and then go for more specific one. It includes supporting ideas, facts, and research.

Closing Segment
Always end your memo with courteous words. Make sure you make the completion of the task in an efficient and easy way. Try to lure the reader to make the positive action.

Necessary Attachments
One can also attach lists, graphs, tables etc. at the end of a memo. Make a reference for your attachments and add a notation for them.




FIVE TIPS FOR EFFECTIVE BUSINESS MEMOS
AUDIENCE ORIENTATION
Always consider the audience and their needs when preparing a memo. An acronym or abbreviation that is known to management may not be known by all the employees of the organization, and if the memo is to be posted and distributed within the organization, the goal is clear and concise communication at all levels with no ambiguity.

PROFESSIONAL, FORMAL TONE
Memos are often announcements, and the person sending the memo speaks for a part or all of the organization. While it may contain a request for feedback, the announcement itself is linear, from the organization to the employees. The memo may have legal standing as it often reflects policies or procedures, and may reference an existing or new policy in the employee manual, for example.

SUBJECT EMPHASIS
The subject is normally declared in the subject line and should be clear and concise. If the memo is announcing the observance of a holiday, for example, the specific holiday should be named in the subject line—for example, use “Thanksgiving weekend schedule” rather than “holiday observance.”

DIRECT FORMAT
Some written business communication allows for a choice between direct and indirect formats, but memorandums are always direct. The purpose is clearly announced.

OBJECTIVITY
Memos are a place for just the facts, and should have an objective tone without personal bias, preference, or interest on display. Avoid subjectivity.FIVE TIPS FOR EFFECTIVE BUSINESS MEMOS
AUDIENCE ORIENTATION
Always consider the audience and their needs when preparing a memo. An acronym or abbreviation that is known to management may not be known by all the employees of the organization, and if the memo is to be posted and distributed within the organization, the goal is clear and concise communication at all levels with no ambiguity.

PROFESSIONAL, FORMAL TONE
Memos are often announcements, and the person sending the memo speaks for a part or all of the organization. While it may contain a request for feedback, the announcement itself is linear, from the organization to the employees. The memo may have legal standing as it often reflects policies or procedures, and may reference an existing or new policy in the employee manual, for example.

SUBJECT EMPHASIS
The subject is normally declared in the subject line and should be clear and concise. If the memo is announcing the observance of a holiday, for example, the specific holiday should be named in the subject line—for example, use “Thanksgiving weekend schedule” rather than “holiday observance.”

DIRECT FORMAT
Some written business communication allows for a choice between direct and indirect formats, but memorandums are always direct. The purpose is clearly announced.

OBJECTIVITY
Memos are a place for just the facts, and should have an objective tone without personal bias, preference, or interest on display. Avoid subjectivity.





SOME OF THE DIFFERENT TYPES OF MEMOS ARE:
1. REQUEST MEMO 
The objective of these types of memos is to gain a favorable response to a request. A request memo should use persuasive language because the end goal is to convince others. For example, let’s say you have come across a business conference that’s relevant to your position.  You’ll send a request memo to convince your manager to allow you to attend this conference. A few key pointers you may want to keep in mind while writing a request memo are:

State the request clearly

Justify your request with proper reasons

Explain or justify any financial costs that  the organization will have to bear

Present your recommendations for action

Keep your language and tone formal and neutral

2. CONFIRMATION MEMO
These memos are used to confirm in writing something that has been agreed to verbally. Examples of these types of memos can be observed in situations that need agreement between two or more parties. For instance, you agree to finish your project on time if your manager agrees to let you hire three interns. A few things to remember  when confirming agreements in writing are:

Highlight the significant and important details that were agreed to verbally

Be specific in your demands and targets

Ask for feedback on any unclear or misunderstood points

3. SUGGESTIVE MEMO 
These types of memos are usually circulated to find efficient solutions to problems. One of the building blocks of success in any organization is the creative thinking of its employees. Managers or team leaders often encourage group discussions and brainstorming sessions through suggestive memos. The purpose could be gathering innovative new ideas or generating out-of-the-box solutions to problems. Here are a few things to be conscious of while writing a suggestive memo:

Write in an encouraging and positive way and tactfully present suggestions for change

Use headings or titles to differentiate between multiple groups of ideas

Be specific in stating your expectations

CONCLUSION
Over time, the medium of internal communications, and especially memo writing, has changed. Most memos are communicated in electronic formats in current times. No matter which medium you choose to deliver your memos in, keep reaching out to your employees and connecting with them. It’s a good idea to remind yourself and your coworkers about the perks of open communication from time to time!

















A memorandum is a form of official interdepartmental communication that is used to convey essential decisions or information. A memorandum is thought to be a step below a formal letter and often contains details needed for specific meetings, projects, policies or others. So what is a memorandum? A memorandum’s definition is that it is essentially an intra-office tool for communication usable to announce specific events or changes. A memorandum or memo for short is a way of communication that is also recorded for posterity. Memos are usually issued when vital changes have been made to a company’s policy or one of its projects. A memorandum definition and example can be seen in the image below:

 

(Image Will Be Uploaded Soon)

 

The memorandum letter that is displayed above displays the kind of topic this tool is often used for. An office memorandum’s meaning should be clear and concise to make sure information is delivered with no possible misunderstanding. Office memorandums are a little different from normal memorandums. So what do you mean by an office memorandum? An office memorandum meaning a memo issued by a member of a governing body or an organization is simply a method of communication which will convey certain details between two members (or department heads in some cases) of the same organization/governing body.

 

Purpose of a Memorandum
A memo can have many uses and this versatility combined with its official capacity is why it is used quite often in an organization. The uses of a memorandum are as follows:

A way to transfer knowledge of a specific process

To convey specific details on a project

To request specific information

To offer suggestions on a matter

To report to a superior

To offer congratulations or positive news

To share ideas

 

Advantage of a Memorandum
Memos are a timesaving mode of communication and are quite convenient to use. (especially with an intranet)

Given that memos are intra-office, there will be no need to use expensive paper. The recycled paper will be acceptable.

Memos are stored for the future, and such can be referred later if needed.

 

How to Write a Memorandum
Memorandum writing consists of multiple segments. A memorandum paper comes with the following parts: 

The Header: The head segment can be split into four parts:

To: Enter the recipient’s name and position

From: Enter the sender’s name and position

Date: Enter the date of sending

Subject: Enter a short reason for the memo

Opening Segment: The opening should contain a brief version of why this memo is necessary, so the recipient knows exactly what is happening.

Context: If there are any specific reasons or circumstances for the memo, they can be listed in this section.

Action Segment: This segment should be used to instruct the recipient on any steps to be taken or tasks to be performed related to the context or subject of the memo. One should be clear and specific about this task to avoid any confusion later on.

Summarizing: While memos should be short, some can turn out to be rather long based on the subject in question. In such cases, a memo should also carry a summary to help the recipient (or recipients) understand what is required and why. 

Discussion: if necessary, one can attach this segment to convey the various ideas that lead to the reason for this memo and the possible policy behind it. 

Closing Segment: This segment should end the memo politely and in a positive note to help initiate whatever action may be required. It is also important that any needed attachments supporting the content in the memo be displayed as well.







the memo can be moved into three (3) ways within an organization and can be divided into as follows:

Downward
Upward
Horizontal
Downward
Here memo moves from superiors to subordinates. Such memos, in most cases, announce or explain policy or procedures. It also announces new staff appointments, product and service changes, and special events within the organization.

Moreover, the superior may also request any information, through such a memo.


 
Types of memo
Types of Memo: Downward
Upward
Here memos are written by subordinates to their respective superiors. These memos provide responses to requests made by superiors and convey informal reports to superiors. Upward memos may also make requests for any specific reasonable matter.

The tone of such a memo should be formal and the facts to be contained here should be backed by proper evidence. This memo is one way to present yourself to your superior and maybe your best support for promotion within the organization.


 
types_of_memo_2
Types of Memo: UPWARD
Horizontal
This memo is communicated between co-workers and employees at the same level or position. The respective positions of the sender and the receiver determine the tone of the memo and generally, the tone is informal.

The carefully written memo may enhance your image among your co-workers and therefore an opportunity for your advancement.


 
types_of_memo_3
Types of Memo: HORIZONTAL    
https://www.businesscommunicationarticles.com/types-of-memo/